good evening everyone losland montgomery
again the china history podcast
as advertised last episode i said we're
going to go back to ancient times
and in the history of china the joe
dynasty is pretty much as far back as
you could reliably go
before you begin to get all caught up in
the quagmire of oracle bones myths and
maybes the three dynasties of china
offers up an admirable blend of recorded
history and fantasy
the legendary shah dynasty is roughly
pegged
as having begun around 2000 bce
4 000 years ago there isn't much
evidence besides what was gleaned
from the shang and zhou with the xia
and so many other aspects of these three
dynasties we're usually left with no
other choice but to hang our hat on
whatever sema chen
wrote in the han dynasty about you the
great and the floods
king jian the fall of the shia and the
rise and fall of the shang and about
today's story as well
today's subject jiangsuya his life
straddled that period in the 12th
century bce
when the shang was on its way out and
the joe was taking over
chiang zaya's dates are questionable
surprise surprise
let's go with 1156 to 1017 bce
what's his greatest historic claim to
fame well he has a few
and we'll look at them all but perhaps
most of all
he was kind of a indispensable man
who arrived on the scene at a most
critical hour and helped the g
family defeat the wicked shang ruler
joshin or dishing this story
of how the family patriarch chi chong
and his two sons chief and
vanquished this most cruel of ancient
kings is
well in my absolutely worthless opinion
one of the greatest stories
from all of chinese history and i'll
throw in neolithic history too
in telling the story of jiangsuya not
only is there a little bit of history
to chew on there's a whole other wild
and fantastical tale surrounding his
life
and the times he was born into
chi chong of course is the epic hero
king one
the father of the founder of the joe
dynasty and his two most famous sons
jifa and ji dan were king wu
and the duke of joe respectively
during the ming dynasty there was a
novel that came out called the
investiture of the gods
the feng shun yen yi like jiangsuya
himself this novel has more than a few
english names for the title
it's also known as the anfiefment of the
gods
it's one of those works of literature
where no one knows for sure who wrote it
but
it always gets attributed to a man named
shujong lin
who lived during the first half of the
16th century
ming dynasty this kind of novel is known
as a
moon novel shanmore in english these
works are usually referred to as gods
and demons fiction
a very popular genre of literature and
this one
along with shiyo ji journey to the west
in particular
is one of the best loved this kind of
writing became all the rage during the
ming dynasty
and almost 500 years later i dare say
he hasn't gone out of style the video
gaming industry will attest to that
the infieffent of the gods is a hundred
chapters long and i've never read it in
chinese but it's a trip
especially if you're familiar with the
history of that time
in the 12th century bce and i didn't
know it when i decided on jiangsuya
is a follow-up topic to emily hahn
i wanted to do a topic from ancient
times and i arbitrarily chose this one
off the list and as i began my research
i discovered he's a superstar in the
world of chinese
cinema there's a new animated film out
called jiangsuya
legend of deification it was all set to
hit the screens in january
this year 2020 and then the whole kovid
thing happened
and the movie got put on hold this one's
a sequel
to the 2019 flick entitled birth of the
demon child
neja cost 20 million to make and took in
almost 750 million at the box office
and that was just in the prc my youngest
child
is 25 years old so needless to say i
don't stay on top of all the newly
released animated films like i used to
so i didn't know about this whole thing
well in this episode we're going to try
and stick with the historical
unless on his magical powers which i'm
betting the movie will
play up more you know from this long ago
3 100 years it's hard to know with any
degree of certainty the actual timeline
of events that happened back then
so when we read about things that went
down in the joe dynasty
especially the western joe 1046 bce to
771 bce
it's hard to tell you have to take a
leap of faith
but we sure do know a lot thanks to the
joe dynasty propensity to write down a
lot of important stuff
on inorganic substrates like bronze
these ancient people left us a lot of
information
about what was happening in their day
so let's look at jiangsuya and see where
he fits into the whole
story of the joe i'll also interject
here and there with some of the myths
and legends from the feng shui
the deification of the gods
to tell the story of jiangsuya is to
retell the story of the fall of the
shang dynasty
which as i said a classic from ancient
chinese history
i never get tired of it and it's also
the story of the founding of the state
of chi
you all remember that once powerful
state its capital let lindsay
modern-day ziba it initially comprised
all of northern shandong
including jinan and to the south of chi
was once
lu the birthplace of confucius and
because of these two ancient states from
the joe dynasty
shandong province is sometimes called
chilu liang
the land of the two states of chi and
liu
she all began with chanzalia
so jiangsuya like a lot of chinese
historical figures
he had a lot of names he's known but
besides chiang zaya
he's known as the grand duke of chi chi
taikong
the grand duke of chiang jiang taikong
grand duke
wang taikong wang and wang
liu and i'm sure a few more his surname
was chiang
his personal name was shang for nobles
it was a thing to have both a family
surname
and a surname of your clan so he's
referred to as both liu
and jiang again no proof or anything but
it was said that yangtze
was descended from some noble lord who
had actually worked alongside you the
great
to tame the floods that was quite a
claim to fame back then
his early years were unspectacular and
unsuccessful and according to one
account he had been brow beaten by his
woman
into seeking employment working for the
royal house
he worked his way up the ladder
ultimately becoming the king's main
military leader then jiangsuya after
watching the
quality of his leader degrade to an
alarming degree
he one day just got up and left this
came following a very
dramatic dust up and so disgusted had he
become at the state of the kingdom
and with joshin's depravity and with the
king's evil concubine
dodgy inflicting pain and torture on
innocent victims
just for the hell of it well he decided
to abandon his post
quit the shang capital modern day anyang
and he retired as the novel says to
kunlun
and though laozi and chuanza were still
way in the future
jiangsuya remained on quinlun
studying the dao under the main guy
you ensure tienzun it's impossible to
completely
peel away the myths surrounding chiang
saud's association with taoism
and the supernatural and all those years
he spent living in quinlan this isn't
the quinlan mountains
that separate xinjiang in tibet that we
discussed in that
12th part recently in chinese mythology
kunlun is sort of like what mount
olympus might be for the greeks
it was a land of gods goddesses and
wild and chimerical animals with all
kinds of fantastical powers
pangu niwa fujii
they were all associated with it's a
very important place in taoism as well
like in the in the east of china where
the eight immortals
the basian where they dwelled
kunlun no one's quite sure where it was
what it was or who lived there but it
was considered a kind of palace of
heaven and according to what we know
chancellor spent a lot of time there
it's said
as an apprentice or a disciple to your
ensure tienzun
a towering figure in the taorest
religion
you remember the taoist religion
in taotia which was the philosophy
of taoism associated with laozi juansa
and others
two different things the taoist folk
religion
and the way of life of following the dal
you ensure he was one of the three pure
ones
sanching the holy trinity if you will of
the taoist religion
he's the creator of heaven and earth
which
i guess makes him pretty important he
was sort of like
the main administrator in heaven and on
earth the decider
the most supreme of all beings
and in the novel deification of the gods
he is the master of kunlun
and resides there just as zeus resided
on mount olympus
and one day you ensure tienson being
all-knowing
foretold what was about to happen down
in these
earliest core lands of ancient china
along the yellow river province with the
epicenter
in the city of anyang after all these
years living on kunlun and studying
under yenshir tianzoon
the master instructed his disciple jang
zaya
to head to where all the action is about
to go down and he tells him his destiny
to put an end to the shang and their
crazy king
and to assist in the founding of the joe
and mind you chiang zaya is already
72 at this time he's no spring chicken
but he had been selected for this
mission because of the role
he had once had serving the shang court
for two decades as
well essentially head of the whole shang
military so he was now back in the real
world so to speak and he had to somehow
hook up with ji
chang who we know went on to become king
one of joe
and according to the legend jianxija
waded into the whey river
the largest tributary of the yellow
river and using a fishing pole with no
hook or
bait he waited patiently day after day
for the one person he considered a
benevolent ruler
to come along well you know how these
stories go
diviners had told the future king when
quote
while hunting on the north bank of the
way river
you will get a great catch it will not
be in the form of a dragon
nor a tiger or great bear according to
the signs you will find a duke or
marquis there
whom heaven has sent to be your teacher
if
employed as your assistant you will
flourish and the benefits will extend to
three generations of joe kings
end quote and sure enough whilst
jiangziya
waiting for this one true and worthy
hero to come along
well who chanced to hear jiantia's song
of
lamentation over the state of the shang
dynasty and of the
worthy royal house who would replace
them this
is the great moment where ji chang the
future king wen
meets chiang zaya on the banks of the
wei river
this is another one of those great
moments in chinese history like when
lyope medjugal yang this moment is often
alluded to
and recited in epic poems and stories
and most notably in the book
feng shun yey deification of the gods
king one was instantly impressed with
jiangsuya's insight and wisdom
concerning the current state of affairs
at the shang capital
and the two began to discuss the many
evil deeds of the wicked
and cruel shang king joshin
and these conversations they had were
jiangzi
details his strategy about how to put an
end to the shang
and replace them with the joe were
discussed in minute detail
and this dialogue was immortalized in
the book called
the six secret strategic teachings the
taigong lyoto
this military treatise is the first of
the so-called
chi-shu the seven military classics of
which
suns art of wars included they were all
canonized more than a thousand years
later during the northern song dynasty
and in these six secret teachings
evolved the game plan for how to take
down this shang dynasty
again written in the form of a dialogue
between jiangsuya
the future king wen brought jiangsuya to
his palace and made him his chief
minister
and this became the start of a beautiful
friendship
you know if you go to the national
palace museum in taipei you could see
the famous
painting wei bing chwaiti aotu which
depicts the moment when ji chang had his
fateful meeting with jiangsuya on the
banks of the river way
by this time ji chang had already been
released from his
incarceration by joshin and he had
already witnessed some of the
cruelty happening within the walls of
the shangpal asset yin
and in his spare time he figured out the
64 hexagrams too
but chi chong this early great chinese
hero
he died before he could witness the
downfall of joshin in 1046 bce
at the fateful battle of muya just
outside the capital of yin
anyang northern province the part where
the yellow river flowed
the central core of ancient chinese
civilization
he was later honored as king one after
his son
jifa or king wu after he emerged
victorious in the end
i know most of you have heard it all
before in previous chp episodes
chp 15 and
16 i think but just in case you never
heard the story or need a refresher
let me climb into my hot air balloon and
give you a quick
overview encapsulation of this truly
great story from chinese history man a
tea house storyteller's favorite for
thousands of years
and though the headliners of this legend
are king wu
the duke of joe and of course king
joshin of shang and his
ghoulish lover dodgy well keep in mind
that it was really the military
strategist and former xiang military
leader
who worked with the g family to
facilitate their
ultimate victory and in doing so they
had a massive impact on the direction
of chinese history the feng shui
the deification of the gods this is
basically the whole story
how the shang fell and how the joe
emerged on top
with a few embellishments for your
reading pleasure
the shang dynasty is the first chinese
dynasty where archaeological evidence
exists
all discovered in the ruins of yin and
19th early 20th century
that attested to the dynasty's existence
and confirmed them
as the earliest huasia chinese
civilization
who left written records behind best
guesses vary as far as the exact dates
but
1600 to 1046 bce is usually accepted
after five good centuries along came the
final
shang king joe he is
the brutal antagonist in the story but
as far as his early years went ah
sema had nothing but good things to say
about him in the records of the grand
historian
but one day king joe while at the nuwa
temple
said something sexual and degrading in
front of this holiest of all goddesses
wife of fu she for crying out loud and
let's just say she didn't appreciate
what king joe said
or how he was acting in her temple so to
take him down a few pegs and i guess you
could say put his shang dynasty out of
business
this goddess of so many things nuwa
she sent a fox spirit to bewitch
joshin and chinese myths well these
holy jing or joey jing our favorite
characters these were fox spirits that
well he could disguise themselves as
beautiful women and in one of their
forms they had
nine tails this vixen spirit
motif that didn't go out of style until
into modern times i wager
that's who dodgy was one of these
jill waging and did king joe ever fall
head over heels in love with her
and so entirely had she bewitched this
king
he went from being this good leader to a
depraved
scoundrel willing to flush his country
down the toilet just for the sake of
pleasing dodgy
deification of the gods chapter 17
everything is recorded in
all its gory and agonizing splendor
the torture devices the depravity of the
axe she would commit and
make the king commit the bronze toaster
the snake pit the wine pool and meat
forest
only the sickest minds could think up
such
devices as these after king joe
had his own uncle the venerable bee gun
killed in a gruesome fashion well
as i indicated already that was when
chiang zaya threw in the towel and
abandoned his high rank in the xiang
hierarchy
and now after all those years serving
king joe
of shang and retiring to kunlun to study
the dao
he has now teamed up with chifa the
future king wu
and king wu's brother ji dan the future
duke of joe
together they used all their strengths
and wiles
to attack the capital while king joe was
out east
fighting the dongy the so-called eastern
barbarians who were indigenous to that
part of shandong
and at muya 1046 bce
the fateful year the shang army
led by king joe himself went down in a
decisive defeat
against the joe army led by king wu
and johnson and 1046 bce is generally
accepted as the start
of the joe dynasty seven hundred ninety
years had lasted before
qin shir huang walked down the stage of
history
and became china's first emperor in 221
bce
the joe was the longest lasting in
chinese history but there's a couple
caveats and a lot of fine print that
goes with that claim
now the movie deification of the gods
the reason it gets that name is because
after the g family and their royal house
of joe
had vanquished the undeserving shang
dynasty
they had the authority now that this
epic battle was over
to take stock on both sides the victors
and the losers
and determine whose deeds were such that
they were worthy
of deification for example begun the
uncle of joshin
and a man revered and respected by
jiangsuya
after all the good advice and loyalty he
had shown his nephew
and his efforts to steer him away from
dodgy's powers
he gets his heart ripped out so he got
deified
and went on to become one of the most
famous of all gods in chinese mythology
he became the taishan the god of wealth
or
one of the versions of the god of wealth
story and when it came time to deify
these fallen heroes of joe
and the defeated shang king wu appointed
zhangzuya to make this call
and many of the gods like the god of
wealth came from this
time in the mid 11th century bce
he canonized 365 and all
who became deities in chinese mythology
and these were the gods who the people
called on in good times and bad
who well in addition to their own local
gods
protected them advise them and warn them
of disaster
or good times ahead they were not the
same as the
taoist and buddhist gods or celestial
gods
these deified heroes were once mortal
human beings who became gods
these were the ones who were the most
popular
folk heroes and the most relatable to
the people over the millennia
well jiangzhiya didn't live happily ever
after that
after the joe dynasty got established
not long after
a terrible thing happened king wu died
1043 bce that resulted in a
massive political crisis and once again
chiang zaya had to delay his retirement
and had to come to the assistance
of king wu's brother ji dan the duke of
joe
who himself had come to the aid of young
king chang and served as his regent
until the young son of king wu
could come into his majority until then
the duke of joe
held the reigns of power in the capital
at hauching
near modern day xi'an some say this
venerable duke served
some say he usurped was king chung
really too young to be king or was this
a
power grab by the duke of joe nobody got
it on video
at the time of king wu's passing there
were three
of the duke of joe's brothers plus
someone named wu gung
who ruled the eastern part of the joe
domains
woo gang was the son of the defeated
king
joshin and he was a bone king wu had
thrown
to shang loyalists out in those parts of
which there were still quite a few
and he believed giving joe sheen's
prince some role out there would
keep them quiet but after king wu up and
died so
suddenly and unexpectedly well these
three brothers
in wu and they weren't so sure they
liked the way
their brother cheated on the duke of joe
how he went and grabbed all the power
for himself
without even asking them well this all
led to a succession crisis known as
the rebellion of the three guards the
and gerlon
1042-1039 bce
western shandong and northern jiangsu
these three brothers of the duke of joe
were the so-called three guards
along with the forces loyal to joe gong
the duke of joe
once again is credited with handing the
rebels a complete
and total defeat further enhancing his
reputation
as a military strategist and general not
to mention a bff to the joe royal family
and one of the main upshots of this
rebellion of the three guards
was that the duke of joe instituted the
so-called feudal
or fungien system that called for
all of the lands under joe control
to be divvied up amongst all joe
loyalists those who were family
controlled all the lands surrounding the
capital at hao jing
and beyond these core lands when they
ran out of family members
loyalists were enthiefed there and given
all kinds of titles and
privileges then of course much later on
in the eastern
joe dynasty beginning around 771 bce
their loyalty to the joe royal house
starts to come into question
and is a name only and all these
aristocrats ruling their small
and not so small patches of land start
to knock each other off
until there's only one man left standing
so jiangzuya we remember him for his
timely service to kings one
and wu and the duke of joe and for
putting down a
very potent rebellion very early in the
life of the dynasty
when there was no king on the throne and
for his next act in life
chiang zaya was sent out to pasture to
these
still rather new lands where the dongy
once roamed and were now incorporated
into what was already a very highly
developed chinese civilization
these lands given to jiangsuya as his to
do as he wished in
northern chandong became the state of
chi
and besides all the titles he held as
the first
head of chi state jiangsuya also became
known as the father of
qi culture and he's revered today in the
city of lindsay
where they consider him a favorite son
even though he didn't come from there
originally
chi culture was advanced further in the
7th century bce under duquan and his
great minister guanchong and people from
other parts of china would visit chi
and see how they did things there their
architecture
ways of laying out a city the emerging
art and
literature just as the silk road would
become a conduit linking distant
cultures
within china people would travel the
country and bring back to their city
town or village
all the new stuff they saw elsewhere and
layer
by layer everything was already starting
to develop nicely
confucius it was only a century or two
away
and right here also the duke of joe
along with jiangtsuya
introduced the idea of the tin ming
the mandate of heaven for the sake of
justifying the benevolence and
legitimacy of the joe
the previous dynasty had to be pointed
to as worthy of being
overthrown and replaced and for that
reason
we take this whole notion of a wicked an
evil king causing so much suffering to
the people
and point to all his faults and excesses
and then go on to say that this was
heaven's will
make total sense gets repeated in the
qin the han
and it keeps on going the same was said
of the qing
by the late 19th century everyone said
they had clearly lost the tianming
the mandate of heaven so the state of
chi
that would one day become so wealthy and
full of might
and serve as a model for all other
states and their sponsorship of scholars
art and literature the chisha academy
the chisholm that was in the chi capital
of lindsay
and it was established for centuries
after jiangsuya
passed from this earth but he had
instilled this spirit of culture
and learning in his own time and
jiangtsuya's family
ruled chi until they were replaced by a
different family
in 379 bce so jiangzuya
if you follow chinese cinema especially
animated films well you know all about
him
if not remember that name next time you
ever find yourself thinking about those
dramatic years when the shang was
falling
and the joe was rising and during this
joe dynasty
all the system software of chinese
culture for the coming centuries
was put in place and it's been adapting
ever since
and we remember jiang zhiya as one of
the early heroes
of this age during the tang and song
dynasties
chiang zaya was particularly venerated
and temples in his honor were scattered
across the land
and after a time in the doghouse in the
early ming he made a comeback mid
dynasty and was once again
venerated as one of the patriarchs of
military strategy
and chiang was as much a military sage
as
confucius was a literary sage he's on
the same level as the great sage
just a different category and
posthumously
and in the annals of history he is
remembered in english at least
as the great duke of chi the founder of
this
great and influential state during the
eastern joe they were the last one
standing in the way of chincher huang's
final conquest
at the end of the warring states period
in the third century bce
it all came down to seven states
and after king ying jung led the qin
army to victory over chi
in 221 bce that was the beginning of
imperial chinese history
goodbye to those bronze age dynasties
and in popular mass culture yeah
already an icon known throughout the
world of
manga video games tv shows
movies novels and whenever discussing
the the supernatural
in chinese folk religion he's a
well-known figure many believe it wasn't
only his skills as a
military strategist that came in handy
it was jiangziya's magical powers that
he used
to win the celestial gods over to the
side of the house of joe
there's also the book attributed to xi
jong li and deification of the gods
i have to check with jon ju and see if
he has that one queued up at all for
production
he's definitely going to have to put
that explicit label on that episode 17
with all those gruesome
descriptions of dachi's famous torture
devices in
action he's still not finished with the
water margin podcast yet
three kingdoms podcast done deal you
could binge on that one from start to
finish
john ju ladies and gentlemen dream
kingdoms podcast and the water margin
podcast
and now with this new movie jiangsuya
legend of deification coming out
officially
on guachingjia october 1st from beijing
unlike pictures and distributed here in
the usa by welgo usa entertainment
well shares and chances are gonna
skyrocket
probably even higher than they were
following the battle of muya
3066 years ago it's going to be showing
here in socal
the ad sell say october 1st so i'm not
sure i'm
ready for a movie theater yet but given
that the story is based on one of the
great slices of ancient chinese history
i'm sure
it will do quite well you know there are
two different chances as i think i
indicated at the outset
there's the one from history who sema
chen
and other ancient historians speak about
and there's the changs
from shujong lin's novel deification of
the gods
lots of taoism fantasy all laced with
the supernatural
i found the novel on google books where
you can go check it out i'll put a link
in the show notes along with some amazon
links to
english translations and that
my fine friends is gonna be that for
this time
consider supporting me through my
patreon page patreon.com
three bucks a month or five or ten or
whatever you want
lots of stories from my distant past
early access to chp episodes
ready access to your humble narrator
if you prefer just a one-time donation i
maintain a paypal donation center just
for that very
reason paypal dot me slash china history
podcast
all links to everything at the show
notes okay
this is a lazala montgomery signing off
from los
angeles california as always beseeching
you
to join me next time for another
exciting episode
of the china history podcast
you